
Claude finished the response
I will publish a work on github about Spanish Spot Power Exchange and create a NET 10, REST API and blazer front-end solution for Day-Ahead auction results. For the first step, 1st could you explain me briefly about Spanish Spot Power Exchange? 2nd where the Day-Ahead auction results are published? 3rd which data source should be used for this kind of application? 4th How the published data is structured? 5th Any assumptions or limitations of your implementation?


Synthesized technical framework for comprehensive Spanish power exchange solution
Synthesized technical framework for comprehensive Spanish power exchange solution
Great project idea — this is a well-documented domain with solid public data sources. Here's a grounded overview for your five questions.

1. What is the Spanish Spot Power Exchange?
The Spanish day-ahead/intraday electricity market is operated by OMIE (OMI-Polo Español, S.A.), which manages the entirety of the day-ahead and intraday markets for the whole Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal), under the same operating model used by other European markets. This joint Spain-Portugal market is called MIBEL (Iberian Electricity Market). 
OMIE

Mechanically: buying and selling agents in Spain or Portugal submit bids to the day-ahead market through OMIE, the only NEMO (Nominated Electricity Market Operator) in those countries, and bids are accepted based on economic merit and available interconnection capacity between price zones. If interconnection capacity is sufficient, Spain and Portugal share one price; if congested, prices split (this is "market coupling"). Once results are obtained, they're sent to the System Operator (REE) for technical viability validation, which can slightly alter the results, producing a "viable daily program." The harmonised maximum clearing price for the Single Day-Ahead Coupling (SDAC) is +4000 EUR/MWh. As of the 2026 market reform, the market operates on a 15-minute Market Time Unit (MTU) rather than hourly — important for your data model. 
OMIE + 3

2. Where are Day-Ahead auction results published?
Primarily on OMIE's website, under Market Results → Daily Market → Day-ahead price (omie.es/en/market-results/daily/daily-market/day-ahead-price), which shows for each period of the chosen day the daily market prices for Spain and Portugal, plus total power acquired in the Iberian day-ahead market, and daily/annual arithmetic average prices. There's also a public file repository (omie.es/en/file-access-list) with raw downloadable files, and a market-results-history section for historical queries by date/scope. 
OMIE

Secondarily, ESIOS (REE's transparency platform, esios.ree.es) republishes the OMIE day-ahead price as one of its indicators — useful because it exposes a proper REST API (see below).

3. Which data source should you use?
Two realistic options, and I'd recommend combining them depending on your use case:

A. OMIE public files (no auth required)
Flat files downloadable directly by URL pattern, e.g.:

https://www.omie.es/en/file-download?parents[0]=marginalpdbc&filename=marginalpdbc_{yyyyMMdd}.1
Key files relevant to Day-Ahead results:

marginalpdbc_{date}.1 — day-ahead hourly/quarter-hourly marginal prices (Spain/Portugal)
curva_pbc_{date}.1 — aggregate supply/demand bid curves
pdbc_tot_{date}.1 — total matched program
These are listed on OMIE's file-access page. No API key needed, but it's file-scraping rather than a proper REST/JSON API, and the public repository only covers roughly the last 6 mobile years; older files require a manual request through the OMIE assistance portal. 
OMIE
B. ESIOS API (REE) — recommended for a .NET REST backend
A genuine authenticated REST API returning JSON/XML:

GET https://api.esios.ree.es/indicators/{id}?start_date=...&end_date=...
Headers: Authorization: Token token="<your-key>"
Indicator 600 is the day-ahead spot price (OMIE-sourced), exposed as "Day-ahead spot price (OMIE)" and directly queryable by date range. ESIOS requires a free API token (request via email to REE) but gives you clean, structured, versioned data — much friendlier to consume from C# than parsing fixed-width/CSV files. 
GitHub

My recommendation: build your .NET ingestion layer against ESIOS as the primary source (proper REST/JSON, stable schema, easy HttpClient integration), and optionally add an OMIE file parser as a secondary/fallback source or for data OMIE publishes that ESIOS doesn't (e.g., full bid curves).

4. How is the published data structured?
OMIE marginalpdbc file (semicolon-delimited text, roughly):

MARGINALPDBC;<report-id>
<year>;<month>;<day>;<hour>;<price-Spain>;<price-Portugal>;*
...
One row per hour (or per 15-minute period post-2026 reform) per day, with separate marginal price columns for Spain and Portugal. Files are named marginalpdbc_YYYYMMDD.1, one per day. On clock-change days the market has 23 or 25 periods instead of the usual 24 — your data model needs to tolerate this. 
FOCUSOFT

ESIOS indicator JSON (indicator 600) roughly looks like:

json
{
  "indicator": {
    "id": 600,
    "name": "Precio mercado SPOT Diario",
    "values": [
      { "value": 45.23, "datetime": "2026-07-12T00:00:00+02:00", "geo_id": 3, "geo_name": "España" },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
Each element in values is one price point per period per geographic zone (geo_id distinguishes Spain/Portugal), with an ISO-8601 timestamp already in local time with offset — much easier to deserialize into a C# record than the OMIE flat file.

5. Assumptions and limitations to flag in your implementation
Time granularity change: the market moved from hourly to 15-minute MTU in 2026; historical data before the change is hourly, so your schema/period model needs to handle both (e.g., store a period index + duration rather than assuming 24 fixed hourly slots).
DST days: 23-period (spring) and 25-period (autumn) days must be handled explicitly, not assumed away.
Results are not always final: day-ahead market results can be slightly altered by REE's technical-constraints validation, producing a separate "viable daily program" — decide whether your app shows the market result or the viable result (they can differ). 
OMIE
Rate limits / auth: ESIOS requires a token and has (undocumented publicly, but real-world observed) rate limits — build retry/backoff and caching into your REST API layer rather than hitting ESIOS per user request.
File format stability: OMIE's flat-file formats are not versioned/documented as a formal API contract — they can change without notice, so a file-based ingestion path is inherently more fragile than the ESIOS JSON path.
Historical depth: OMIE's public file repository covers only the last ~6 rolling years; older data needs a manual portal request, so your app should state clearly how far back its data goes. 
OMIE
Licensing/attribution: both OMIE and ESIOS data are public, but you should still credit them as data sources in your GitHub README, and avoid implying either entity endorses your project.
This is not financial infrastructure: worth stating explicitly in your README that this is an educational/informational tool, not a source of truth for settlement or trading decisions.
Want me to go a step further and sketch the actual .NET 10 solution structure (API project, EF/data model for periods and prices, background ingestion job, and a Blazor results page)?


excerpt_from_previous_claude_message.txt
1 line

TXT

could you validate the date information details about the "2026 market reform" "15-minute Market Time Unit (MTU)" that mentioned? and give me briefly the exact details


Thinking about validating 2026 market reform 15-minute MTU details
Thinking about validating 2026 market reform 15-minute MTU details
Good catch — I need to correct myself. It was not a "2026 reform," and I'll fix that.

Correction: 15-minute MTU details
Date: the Single Day-Ahead Coupling (SDAC) — which includes Spain via OMIE — went live with the 15-minute Market Time Unit on trading day 30 September 2025, for delivery day 1 October 2025. So it's a 2025 change, not 2026, and it's already fully in effect by the time you're building this (July 2026).

Timeline of how it got there (originally planned earlier, slipped twice):

19 Dec 2024 — go-live announced for 11 June 2025
11 June 2025 target was postponed due to non-technical readiness of some parties
14 May 2025 — revised go-live announced: 30 September 2025
12 September 2025 — readiness confirmed after testing
30 September 2025 (trading) / 1 October 2025 (delivery) — actual go-live, applied simultaneously across all SDAC bidding zones
What changed: day-ahead auctions across Europe (coordinated via the EUPHEMIA algorithm) now clear in 96 quarter-hour periods per day instead of 24 hourly periods, giving finer-grained prices that better reflect renewable variability. This applies to all SDAC bidding zones, with one exception: Ireland stayed on 30-minute granularity; Great Britain isn't part of SDAC at all, so it's unaffected. This harmonizes day-ahead with intraday markets, which had already moved to 15-minute granularity earlier (June 2024 for intraday auctions).

Scope note: this is a pan-European SDAC-wide change, not something specific to Spain/OMIE — Spain adopted it because it's a SDAC member, alongside all other coupled NEMOs (Nord Pool, EPEX SPOT, OMIE, GME, OTE, etc.).

Practical implication for your data model: any OMIE/ESIOS day-ahead data from 1 October 2025 onward is quarter-hourly (up to 96 periods/day, or 92/100 on DST-change days); anything before 1 October 2025 is hourly (23–25 periods on DST-change days). So your period model should key off the delivery date, not assume one fixed granularity — e.g., store an explicit period-start timestamp + duration rather than a fixed "hour 1–24" index, so it transparently supports both eras.


excerpt_from_previous_claude_message.txt
1 line

TXT

could you also mentione about the minimum clearing price?


Searched the web
Searched the web
Good question — this one has actually changed recently too. Here's the current picture:

Harmonised minimum clearing price for SDAC
Current value: -600 EUR/MWh, effective from 28 May 2026 (trading date), as confirmed by OMIE's own page.

Timeline:

Original reference value set under the CACM Regulation's HMMCP (Harmonised Maximum and Minimum Clearing Prices) methodology: -500 EUR/MWh
The mechanism auto-adjusts: it decreases by 100 EUR/MWh if the clearing price falls below 70% of the current minimum in at least two market time units — in one or more bidding zones — on at least two different days within a rolling 30-day window
That trigger condition was met twice: on 25 April 2026 (delivery 26 April) and again on 30 April 2026 (delivery 1 May), across several European countries
As a result, the minimum was lowered from -500 to -600 EUR/MWh, applying uniformly across all SDAC bidding zones (including Spain/MIBEL) from 28 May 2026
So, side by side (current values as of today, per OMIE):

Minimum	Maximum
SDAC (Day-ahead), harmonised	-600 EUR/MWh	+4,000 EUR/MWh
SIDC (Intraday)	-9,999 EUR/MWh	+9,999 EUR/MWh
Worth noting for your data model: these limits aren't static constants — they're dynamically adjustable under a published ACER-approved methodology (symmetric-ish logic: the max can step up by 500–1,000 EUR/MWh when high prices are hit; the min steps down by 100 EUR/MWh when low prices are hit, each with a multi-week transition delay before taking effect). So if you want to be fully correct long-term, store these as a versioned/time-bound reference table (effective_from, min_price, max_price) rather than hardcoded constants — OMIE will keep changing them as market conditions evolve.


excerpt_from_previous_claude_message.txt
25 lines

TXT

could you validate the resources informations and url for OMIE public file? Also there is o time for waiting to ESIOS API to respond my request mail, I am planning to use OMIE public files


Validated URL patterns and confirmed OMIE file accessibility details
Validated URL patterns and confirmed OMIE file accessibility details
Good news — I fetched the file-access page directly and even test-downloaded a live file, so this is now verified against the real site rather than general knowledge.

Validated: OMIE public file access
Portal: https://www.omie.es/en/file-access-list — confirmed live, organized by market (Day-ahead Market, Intraday Auction Market, Continuous Intraday Market, Settlements) → subcategories (Prices, Programmes, Curves, Bids, Common, Capacities, Unavailability).

Download URL pattern — confirmed working, I successfully fetched a real file just now:

https://www.omie.es/en/file-download?parents[0]={realdir}&filename={filename}
Note: when I fetched it, the server normalized the URL to ?parents=marginalpdbc (dropped the [0] array notation) and returned the file as application/octet-stream. Build your HttpClient requests with the parents[0]=... form (that's what the site's own links use), but don't be surprised if the response comes back as raw octet-stream rather than text/plain — your C# code should read it as bytes/string regardless of the declared content-type.

Relevant file categories for your Day-Ahead auction app (with correct realdir codes, verified from the page)
Category	Description	realdir
Prices	Day-ahead market hourly prices in Spain	marginalpdbc
Prices	Day-ahead market hourly price in Portugal	marginalpdbcpt
Programmes	Spanish daily basic matching process program	pdbc
Programmes	Daily final viable program	pdvd
Programmes	Total disaggregated program after Day-ahead market	pdbc_stota
Curves	Aggregate supply and demand curves of Day-ahead market	curva_pbc
Curves	Monthly files with curves including bid units	curva_pbc_uof
Bids	Header of bids for Day-ahead Market	cab
Bids	Day-ahead market bids detail	det
Common	Files published in the last 10 days	comun
Common	Latest monthly files published	comunzip
Capacities	Interconnector capacity after Day-ahead Market	capacidad_inter_pbc
So for your core use case, marginalpdbc is the one you want as your primary data source — it's exactly "Day-ahead market hourly prices in Spain." (Note the site still labels it "hourly" even though it's been quarter-hourly since 1 Oct 2025 — the file naming/label didn't change with the MTU reform, only the row count and granularity inside the file did.)

One correction to my earlier answer
I previously called the coverage window "6 mobile years" from memory — the actual page confirms this exactly: the information available in this file repository covers the last 6 mobile years, and if previous files are needed a query can be opened at the OMIE assistance portal. So that detail was accurate. 
OMIE

Also confirmed: the explanatory document on the public file archive models is available at omie.es/en/publicaciones/64 — worth downloading that PDF before you write your parser, since it should contain the authoritative field-by-field layout for marginalpdbc (rather than relying on my earlier reconstructed description of the format, which I have not independently verified against that spec doc).

Since you're skipping ESIOS for now — practical notes for a file-only .NET implementation
No auth needed — just an HttpClient.GetAsync() against the URL pattern above. Good for a quick start.
File naming for automation: daily files follow marginalpdbc_{yyyyMMdd}.1; there are also yearly .zip archives (marginalpdbc_{yyyy}.zip) for bulk historical backfill — useful for seeding your database once, then switching to daily polling.
Parsing quirks to handle (per real-world usage reports I found, e.g. from a VBA implementation working against these exact files): semicolon-delimited, one header row, one row per period, and a trailing * end-of-file marker — build your parser to tolerate that terminator line rather than choking on it.
Variable row counts: expect 23–25 rows/day pre-Oct-2025 (hourly + DST), and up to ~92–100 rows/day post-Oct-2025 (quarter-hourly + DST) — don't hardcode an expected row count anywhere.
Polling cadence: day-ahead results for delivery day D are published once, shortly after the 12:00 CET auction closes on day D-1 — a scheduled background job (e.g. a .NET IHostedService/BackgroundService or Hangfire job) polling once or twice a day is sufficient; no need for aggressive polling.
Fetch the format spec PDF first (omie.es/en/publicaciones/64) before finalizing your parser's column mapping, since I haven't verified the exact column order against that authoritative source myself.
Want me to fetch that format-spec PDF now and pull the exact column layout for marginalpdbc, so your parser is built against verified field definitions rather than an assumption?

I will send you to the task details, could you explain me to step by step how to create a folder like that. I'm working in vs code on windows with .NET 10 SDK installed. I want to create a solution with clean layered architecture for a long-running .NET 10 application. give me the exact powershell commands (to run in vs code's integrated terminal, from my user folder).  Task: 2. Application
Build a long-running application using .NET 10.
Use Quartz.NET to periodically retrieve the latest Day-Ahead auction results.
The application should:

periodically download the auction results
persist the data
avoid duplicate imports
continue operating after restarts
log meaningful events and errors Use a sensible solution and project structure.
REST API
Create a REST API that exposes the stored data.
The API must return the auction data as a CET (Central European Time) time series.
Support the following response formats:

application/json
text/plain For text/plain, return a semicolon-separated CSV string.
Blazor Frontend
Create a Blazor Server frontend.
The frontend must consume the REST API. It must not access the database or application services directly.
Display the auction results in a clear and easy-to-understand format. A chart is preferred but not required.
Technical Requirements

.NET 10
Quartz.NET
Blazor Server
Dependency Injection
Configuration via appsettings.json
Logging
Clean project separation
Show more
That's a clean, working end-to-end result — genuinely worth pausing on, since this confirms every layer we built is actually talking to every other layer correctly:

What this screenshot proves is working, top to bottom:

Quartz job → OMIE download → parser → SQLite (data exists and is correct, as you already verified against raw files)
REST API → JSON serialization → camelCase handled correctly (the JsonSerializerOptions.Web fix worked — no deserialization errors, real values populated, not nulls/defaults)
CET offset conversion → displaying +02:00 correctly for a July date, both in the table and matching what we verified against the raw OMIE file
Blazor Server interactivity → date/zone selectors and Load button are wired to actual server-side re-fetching, not static placeholder markup
The hand-rolled SVG chart → renders a real polyline, scales correctly, and the min/max labels (47,58 €/MWh / 220,00 €/MWh) track the actual data range
Table values for period 1 (145,85) and period 2 (144,69) — matching exactly what you showed me from the raw file and SQLite browser back when we first verified July 13th Spain data
One cosmetic detail worth noting: your browser is rendering the decimals with a comma (145,85) rather than the dot I wrote in the "F2" format string — that's your browser/OS locale (likely Turkish, given 13.07.2026 date format too) reformatting the displayed date input and Blazor's default number binding behavior, not a bug in the API or the C# code itself. The API's JSON/CSV output is still dot-decimal, invariant-culture, as verified in your earlier Invoke-RestMethod test — this is purely a client-side rendering nuance in how the browser locale interacts with Blazor's numeric formatting, worth being aware of if a reviewer runs this on a different machine and sees a different decimal separator in the UI than what the API actually returns.

At this point you have a fully working vertical slice covering all four of the task's required layers (long-running Quartz app, persistence with duplicate-avoidance, REST API with content negotiation, Blazor frontend). Given where things stand, a few natural directions from here — happy to go wherever's most useful for your time budget:

README for GitHub — architecture overview, setup instructions, and the assumptions/limitations we flagged along the way (column-order verification, 6-year OMIE data window, etc.) — this is often what an assessment reviewer actually reads first.
Polish pass — loading spinner, error states, maybe a side-by-side Spain vs Portugal comparison view on the chart.
Logging review — make sure the "log meaningful events and errors" requirement is demonstrably covered across all four layers, not just the import job.
Just stop here — this already satisfies every stated requirement.
What's most valuable to you right now?

we can continue with the readme right now, after that we might go with the quick logging review


Determined markdown format suitable for README creation
Determined markdown format suitable for README creation
Here's the README — drop it into your repo root as README.md.

A few things worth knowing about how I wrote it:

It's built entirely from what we actually verified together, not aspirational claims — the duplicate-avoidance, DST-handling, restart-resilience, and OMIE column-order sections describe exactly what you tested and confirmed with real data (including the specific 2026-07-12 period-38 divergence check that settled the column-order question).
The "Assumptions and limitations" section is honest about the open gap: the file format is still spot-checked, not verified against OMIE's authoritative spec PDF. I kept that framing rather than overstating certainty — worth deciding whether you want to close that gap before submission, or leave it flagged as a known limitation (which is itself a reasonable engineering call to document).
Config values match your actual running setup (port 5077, the cron schedule, InitialBackfillDays: 7) — double check these still match if anything's changed since we last touched appsettings.json.
One thing to adjust yourself: replace <this-repo-url> in the clone command once you've actually created the GitHub repo.

Ready to move to the logging review whenever you are.


Readme
Document · MD 
